*condor_q*
===========

Display information about jobs in queue
:index:`condor_q<single: condor_q; HTCondor commands>`
:index:`condor_q command`

Synopsis
--------

**condor_q** [**-help [Universe | State]** ]

**condor_q** [**-debug** ] [*general options* ] [*restriction
list* ] [*output options* ] [*analyze options* ]

Description
-----------

*condor_q* displays information about jobs in the HTCondor job queue.
By default, *condor_q* queries the local job queue, but this behavior
may be modified by specifying one of the general options.

**As of version 8.5.2, condor_q defaults to querying only the current
user's jobs. This default is overridden when the restriction list has
usernames and/or job ids, when the -submitter or -allusers arguments
are specified, or when the current user is a queue superuser. It can also
be overridden by setting the CONDOR_Q_ONLY_MY_JOBS configuration macro to
False.**

**As of version 8.5.6, condor_q defaults to batch-mode output (see -batch
in the Options section below). The old behavior can be obtained by specifying
-nobatch on the command line. To change the default back to its pre-8.5.6
value, set the new configuration variable CONDOR_Q_DASH_BATCH_IS_DEFAULT
to False.**

Batches of jobs
---------------

As of version 8.5.6, *condor_q* defaults to displaying information
about batches of jobs, rather than individual jobs. The intention is
that this will be a more useful, and user-friendly, format for users
with large numbers of jobs in the queue. Ideally, users will specify
meaningful batch names for their jobs, to make it easier to keep track
of related jobs.

(For information about specifying batch names for your jobs, see the
:doc:`/man-pages/condor_submit` and :doc:`/man-pages/condor_submit_dag`
manual pages.)

A batch of jobs is defined as follows:

-  An entire workflow (a DAG or hierarchy of nested DAGs) (note that
   *condor_dagman* now specifies a default batch name for all jobs in a
   given workflow)
-  All jobs in a single cluster
-  All jobs submitted by a single user that have the same executable
   specified in their submit file (unless submitted with different batch
   names)
-  All jobs submitted by a single user that have the same batch name
   specified in their submit file or on the *condor_submit* or
   *condor_submit_dag* command line.

Output
------

There are many output options that modify the output generated by
*condor_q*. The effects of these options, and the meanings of the
various output data, are described below.

Output options
''''''''''''''

If the **-long** option is specified, *condor_q* displays a long
description of the queried jobs by printing the entire job ClassAd for
all jobs matching the restrictions, if any. Individual attributes of the
job ClassAd can be displayed by means of the **-format** option, which
displays attributes with a printf(3) format, or with the **-autoformat**
option. Multiple **-format** options may be specified in the option list
to display several attributes of the job.

For most output options (except as specified), the last line of
*condor_q* output contains a summary of the queue: the total number of
jobs, and the number of jobs in the completed, removed, idle, running,
held and suspended states.

If no output options are specified, *condor_q* now defaults to batch
mode, and displays the following columns of information, with one line
of output per batch of jobs:

.. code-block:: text

    OWNER, BATCH_NAME, SUBMITTED, DONE, RUN, IDLE, [HOLD,] TOTAL, JOB_IDS

Note that the HOLD column is only shown if there are held jobs in the
output or if there are no jobs in the output.

If the **-nobatch** option is specified, *condor_q* displays the
following columns of information, with one line of output per job:

.. code-block:: text

    ID, OWNER, SUBMITTED, RUN_TIME, ST, PRI, SIZE, CMD

If the **-dag** option is specified (in conjunction with **-nobatch**),
*condor_q* displays the following columns of information, with one line
of output per job; the owner is shown only for top-level jobs, and for
all other jobs (including sub-DAGs) the node name is shown:

.. code-block:: text

    ID, OWNER/NODENAME, SUBMITTED, RUN_TIME, ST, PRI, SIZE, CMD

If the **-run** option is specified (in conjunction with **-nobatch**),
*condor_q* displays the following columns of information, with one line
of output per running job:

.. code-block:: text

    ID, OWNER, SUBMITTED, RUN_TIME, HOST(S)

Also note that the **-run** option disables output of the totals line.

If the **-grid** option is specified, *condor_q* displays the following
columns of information, with one line of output per job:

.. code-block:: text

        ID, OWNER, STATUS, GRID->MANAGER, HOST, GRID_JOB_ID

If the **-grid:ec2** option is specified, *condor_q* displays the
following columns of information, with one line of output per job:

.. code-block:: text

        ID, OWNER, STATUS, INSTANCE ID, CMD

If the **-goodput** option is specified, *condor_q* displays the
following columns of information, with one line of output per job:

.. code-block:: text

        ID, OWNER, SUBMITTED, RUN_TIME, GOODPUT, CPU_UTIL, Mb/s

If the **-io** option is specified, *condor_q* displays the following
columns of information, with one line of output per job:

.. code-block:: text

        ID, OWNER, RUNS, ST, INPUT, OUTPUT, RATE, MISC

If the **-cputime** option is specified (in conjunction with
**-nobatch**), *condor_q* displays the following columns of
information, with one line of output per job:

.. code-block:: text

        ID, OWNER, SUBMITTED, CPU_TIME, ST, PRI, SIZE, CMD

If the **-hold** option is specified, *condor_q* displays the following
columns of information, with one line of output per job:

.. code-block:: text

        ID, OWNER, HELD_SINCE, HOLD_REASON

If the **-totals** option is specified, *condor_q* displays only one
line of output no matter how many jobs and batches of jobs are in the
queue. That line of output contains the total number of jobs, and the
number of jobs in the completed, removed, idle, running, held and
suspended states.

Output data
'''''''''''

The available output data are as follows:

 ID
    (Non-batch mode only) The cluster/process id of the HTCondor job.
 OWNER
    The owner of the job or batch of jobs.
 OWNER/NODENAME
    (**-dag** only) The owner of a job or the DAG node name of the job.
 BATCH_NAME
    (Batch mode only) The batch name of the job or batch of jobs.
 SUBMITTED
    The month, day, hour, and minute the job was submitted to the queue.
 DONE
    (Batch mode only) The number of job procs that are done, but still
    in the queue.
 RUN
    (Batch mode only) The number of job procs that are running.
 IDLE
    (Batch mode only) The number of job procs that are in the queue but
    idle.
 HOLD
    (Batch mode only) The number of job procs that are in the queue but
    held.
 TOTAL
    (Batch mode only) The total number of job procs in the queue, unless
    the batch is a DAG, in which case this is the total number of
    clusters in the queue. Note: for non-DAG batches, the TOTAL column
    contains correct values only in version 8.5.7 and later.
 JOB_IDS
    (Batch mode only) The range of job IDs belonging to the batch.
 RUN_TIME
    (Non-batch mode only) Wall-clock time accumulated by the job currently
    running in days, hours, minutes, and seconds. When the job is idle or
    held the jobs previous accumulated time will be displayed.
 ST
    (Non-batch mode only) Current status of the job, which varies
    somewhat according to the job universe and the timing of updates. H
    = on hold, R = running, I = idle (waiting for a machine to execute
    on), C = completed, X = removed, S = suspended (execution of a
    running job temporarily suspended on execute node), < = transferring
    input (or queued to do so), and > = transferring output (or queued
    to do so).
 PRI
    (Non-batch mode only) User specified priority of the job, displayed
    as an integer, with higher numbers corresponding to better priority.
 SIZE
    (Non-batch mode only) The peak amount of memory in Mbytes consumed
    by the job; note this value is only refreshed periodically. The
    actual value reported is taken from the job ClassAd attribute
    :ad-attr:`MemoryUsage` if this attribute is defined, and from job attribute
    :ad-attr:`ImageSize` otherwise.
 CMD
    (Non-batch mode only) The name of the executable. For EC2 jobs, this
    field is arbitrary.
 HOST(S)
    (**-run** only) The host where the job is running.
 STATUS
    (**-grid** only) The state that HTCondor believes the job is in.
    Possible values are grid-type specific, but include:

     PENDING
        The job is waiting for resources to become available in order to
        run.
     ACTIVE
        The job has received resources, and the application is
        executing.
     FAILED
        The job terminated before completion because of an error,
        user-triggered cancel, or system-triggered cancel.
     DONE
        The job completed successfully.
     SUSPENDED
        The job has been suspended. Resources which were allocated for
        this job may have been released due to a scheduler-specific
        reason.
     STAGE_IN
        The job manager is staging in files, in order to run the job.
     STAGE_OUT
        The job manager is staging out files generated by the job.
     UNKNOWN
        Unknown

 GRID->MANAGER
    (**-grid** only) A guess at what remote batch system is running the
    job. It is a guess, because HTCondor looks at the jobmanager
    contact string to attempt identification. If the value is fork, the
    job is running on the remote host without a jobmanager. Values may
    also be condor, lsf, or pbs.
 HOST
    (**-grid** only) The host to which the job was submitted.
 GRID_JOB_ID
    (**-grid** only) (More information needed here.)
 INSTANCE ID
    (**-grid:ec2** only) Usually EC2 instance ID; may be blank or the
    client token, depending on job progress.
 GOODPUT
    (**-goodput** only) The percentage of RUN_TIME for this job which
    has been saved in a checkpoint. A low GOODPUT value indicates that
    the job is failing to checkpoint. If a job has not yet attempted a
    checkpoint, this column contains ``[?????]``.
 CPU_UTIL
    (**-goodput** only) The ratio of CPU_TIME to RUN_TIME for
    checkpointed work. A low CPU_UTIL indicates that the job is not
    running efficiently, perhaps because it is I/O bound or because the
    job requires more memory than available on the remote workstations.
    If the job has not (yet) checkpointed, this column contains
    ``[??????]``.
 Mb/s
    (**-goodput** only) The network usage of this job, in Megabits per
    second of run-time.
    READ The total number of bytes the application has read from files
    and sockets.
    WRITE The total number of bytes the application has written to files
    and sockets.
    SEEK The total number of seek operations the application has
    performed on files.
    XPUT The effective throughput (average bytes read and written per
    second) from the application's point of view.
    BUFSIZE The maximum number of bytes to be buffered per file.
    BLOCKSIZE The desired block size for large data transfers. These
    fields are updated when a job produces a checkpoint or completes. If
    a job has not yet produced a checkpoint, this information is not
    available.
 INPUT
    (**-io** only) BytesRecvd.
 OUTPUT
    (**-io** only) BytesSent.
 RATE
    (**-io** only) BytesRecvd+BytesSent.
 MISC
    (**-io** only) JobUniverse.
 CPU_TIME
    (**-cputime** only) The remote CPU time accumulated by the job to
    date (which has been stored in a checkpoint) in days, hours,
    minutes, and seconds. (If the job is currently running, time
    accumulated during the current run is not shown. If the job has not
    produced a checkpoint, this column contains 0+00:00:00.)
 HELD_SINCE
    (**-hold** only) Month, day, hour and minute at which the job was
    held.
 HOLD_REASON
    (**-hold** only) The hold reason for the job.

Analyze
'''''''

The **-analyze** or **-better-analyze** options can be used to determine
why certain jobs are not running by performing an analysis on a per
machine basis for each machine in the pool. The reasons can vary among
failed constraints, insufficient priority, resource owner preferences
and prevention of preemption by the
:macro:`PREEMPTION_REQUIREMENTS` expression. If the slot being analyzed
is partitionable, and the job does not fit within the current resources
of the slot, the analysis will simulate draining of the slot and proceeed
using the simulated drained slot. If the analyze option
**-verbose** is specified along with the **-analyze** option, progress
information is printed and the names of the first ten machines that match
and the first 10 that do not match are printed. **-better-analyze**
differs from **-analyze** in that it will do matchmaking analysis on
jobs even if they are currently running, or if the reason they are not
running is not due to matchmaking. **-better-analyze** also produces
more thorough analysis of complex Requirements and shows the values of
relevant job ClassAd attributes. When only a single machine is being
analyzed via **-machine** or **-mconstraint**, the values of relevant
attributes of the machine ClassAd are also displayed.

Restrictions
------------

To restrict the display to jobs of interest, a list of zero or more
restriction options may be supplied. Each restriction may be one of:

-  **cluster.process**, which matches jobs which belong to the specified
   cluster and have the specified process number;
-  **cluster** (without a *process*), which matches all jobs belonging
   to the specified cluster;
-  **owner**, which matches all jobs owned by the specified owner;
-  **-constraint expression**, which matches all jobs that satisfy the
   specified ClassAd expression;
-  **-unmatchable expression**, which matches all jobs that do not match
   any slot that would be considered by **-better-analyze** *;*
-  **-allusers**, which overrides the default restriction of only
   matching jobs submitted by the current user.

If *cluster* or *cluster*.\ *process* is specified, and the job matching
that restriction is a *condor_dagman* job, information for all jobs of
that DAG is displayed in batch mode (in non-batch mode, only the
*condor_dagman* job itself is displayed).

If no *owner* restrictions are present, the job matches the restriction
list if it matches at least one restriction in the list. If *owner*
restrictions are present, the job matches the list if it matches one of
the *owner* restrictions and at least one non-*owner* restriction.

Options
-------

 **-debug**
    Causes debugging information to be sent to ``stderr``, based on the
    value of the configuration variable :macro:`TOOL_DEBUG`.
 **-batch**
    (output option) Show a single line of progress information for a
    batch of jobs, where a batch is defined as follows:

    -  An entire workflow (a DAG or hierarchy of nested DAGs)
    -  All jobs in a single cluster
    -  All jobs submitted by a single user that have the same executable
       specified in their submit file
    -  All jobs submitted by a single user that have the same batch name
       specified in their submit file or on the *condor_submit* or
       *condor_submit_dag* command line.

    Also change the output columns as noted above.

    Note that, as of version 8.5.6, **-batch** is the default, unless
    the :macro:`CONDOR_Q_DASH_BATCH_IS_DEFAULT` configuration variable is set
    to ``False``.

 **-nobatch**
    (output option) Show a line for each job (turn off the **-batch**
    option).
 **-global**
    (general option) Queries all job queues in the pool.
 **-submitter** *submitter*
    (general option) List jobs of a specific submitter in the entire
    pool, not just for a single *condor_schedd*.
 **-name** *name*
    (general option) Query only the job queue of the named
    *condor_schedd* daemon.
 **-pool** *centralmanagerhostname[:portnumber]*
    (general option) Use the *centralmanagerhostname* as the central
    manager to locate *condor_schedd* daemons. The default is the
    :macro:`COLLECTOR_HOST`, as specified in the configuration.
 **-jobads** *file*
    (general option) Display jobs from a list of ClassAds from a file,
    instead of the real ClassAds from the *condor_schedd* daemon. This
    is most useful for debugging purposes. The ClassAds appear as if
    *condor_q* **-long** is used with the header stripped out.
 **-userlog** *file*
    (general option) Display jobs, with job information coming from a
    job event log, instead of from the real ClassAds from the
    *condor_schedd* daemon. This is most useful for automated testing
    of the status of jobs known to be in the given job event log,
    because it reduces the load on the *condor_schedd*. A job event log
    does not contain all of the job information, so some fields in the
    normal output of *condor_q* will be blank.
 **-factory**
    (output option) Display information about late materialization job
    factories in the *condor_schedd*.
 **-jobset**
    (output option) Display information about jobsets in the *condor_schedd*
 **-autocluster**
    (output option) Output *condor_schedd* daemon auto cluster
    information. For each auto cluster, output the unique ID of the auto
    cluster along with the number of jobs in that auto cluster. This
    option is intended to be used together with the **-long** option to
    output the ClassAds representing auto clusters. The ClassAds can
    then be used to identify or classify the demand for sets of machine
    resources, which will be useful in the on-demand creation of execute
    nodes for glidein services.
 **-cputime**
    (output option) Instead of wall-clock allocation time (RUN_TIME),
    display remote CPU time accumulated by the job to date in days,
    hours, minutes, and seconds. If the job is currently running, time
    accumulated during the current run is not shown. Note that this
    option has no effect unless used in conjunction with **-nobatch**.
 **-currentrun**
    (output option) If this option is specified, RUN_TIME displays the
    time accumulated so far on this current run unless the job is in IDLE
    or HELD state then RUN_TIME will display the previous runs time. Note
    that this is the base behavior and is not required, and this option
    cannot be used in conjunction with **-cumulative-time**.
 **-cumulative-time**
    (output option) Normally, RUN_TIME contains the current or previous
    runs accumulated wall-clock time. If this option is specified,
    RUN_TIME displays the accumulated time for the current run plus all
    previous runs. Note that this option cannot be used in conjunction
    with **-currentrun**.
 **-dag**
    (output option) Display DAG node jobs under their DAGMan instance.
    Child nodes are listed using indentation to show the structure of
    the DAG. Note that this option has no effect unless used in
    conjunction with **-nobatch**.
 **-expert**
    (output option) Display shorter error messages.
 **-grid**
    (output option) Get information only about jobs submitted to grid
    resources.
 **-grid:ec2**
    (output option) Get information only about jobs submitted to grid
    resources and display it in a format better-suited for EC2 than the
    default.
 **-goodput**
    (output option) Display job goodput statistics.
 **-help [Universe | State]**
    (output option) Print usage info, and, optionally, additionally
    print job universes or job states.
 **-hold**
    (output option) Get information about jobs in the hold state. Also
    displays the time the job was placed into the hold state and the
    reason why the job was placed in the hold state.
 **-limit** *Number*
    (output option) Limit the number of items output to *Number*.
 **-io**
    (output option) Display job input/output summaries.
 **-long**
    (output option) Display entire job ClassAds in long format (one
    attribute per line).
 **-idle**
    (output option) Get information about idle jobs. Note that this
    option implies **-nobatch**.
 **-run**
    (output option) Get information about running jobs. Note that this
    option implies **-nobatch**.
 **-stream-results**
    (output option) Display results as jobs are fetched from the job
    queue rather than storing results in memory until all jobs have been
    fetched. This can reduce memory consumption when fetching large
    numbers of jobs, but if *condor_q* is paused while displaying
    results, this could result in a timeout in communication with
    *condor_schedd*.
 **-totals**
    (output option) Display only the totals.
 **-version**
    (output option) Print the HTCondor version and exit.
 **-wide**
    (output option) If this option is specified, and the command portion
    of the output would cause the output to extend beyond 80 columns,
    display beyond the 80 columns.
 **-xml**
    (output option) Display entire job `ClassAds <https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/classads/classad-mechanism.html>`_ in XML format.
 **-json**
    (output option) Display entire job `ClassAds <https://htcondor.readthedocs.io/en/latest/classads/classad-mechanism.html>`_ in JSON format.
 **-attributes** *Attr1[,Attr2 ...]*
    (output option) Explicitly list the attributes, by name in a comma
    separated list, which should be displayed when using the **-xml**,
    **-json** or **-long** options. Limiting the number of attributes
    increases the efficiency of the query.
 **-format** *fmt attr*
    (output option) Display attribute or expression *attr* in format
    *fmt*. To display the attribute or expression the format must
    contain a single ``printf(3)``-style conversion specifier.
    Attributes must be from the job ClassAd. Expressions are ClassAd
    expressions and may refer to attributes in the job ClassAd. If the
    attribute is not present in a given ClassAd and cannot be parsed as
    an expression, then the format option will be silently skipped. %r
    prints the unevaluated, or raw values. The conversion specifier must
    match the type of the attribute or expression. %s is suitable for
    strings such as :ad-attr:`Owner`, %d for integers such as :ad-attr:`ClusterId`,
    and %f for floating point numbers such as :ad-attr:`RemoteWallClockTime`.
    %v identifies the type of the attribute, and then prints the value
    in an appropriate format. %V identifies the type of the attribute,
    and then prints the value in an appropriate format as it would
    appear in the **-long** format. As an example, strings used with %V
    will have quote marks. An incorrect format will result in undefined
    behavior. Do not use more than one conversion specifier in a given
    format. More than one conversion specifier will result in undefined
    behavior. To output multiple attributes repeat the **-format**
    option once for each desired attribute. Like ``printf(3)`` style
    formats, one may include other text that will be reproduced
    directly. A format without any conversion specifiers may be
    specified, but an attribute is still required. Include a backslash
    followed by an 'n' to specify a line break.
 **-autoformat[:jlhVr,tng]** *attr1 [attr2 ...]* or **-af[:jlhVr,tng]** *attr1 [attr2 ...]*
    (output option) Display attribute(s) or expression(s) formatted in a
    default way according to attribute types. This option takes an
    arbitrary number of attribute names as arguments, and prints out
    their values, with a space between each value and a newline
    character after the last value. It is like the **-format** option
    without format strings. This output option does not work in
    conjunction with any of the options **-run**, **-currentrun**,
    **-hold**, **-grid**, **-goodput**, or **-io**.

    It is assumed that no attribute names begin with a dash character,
    so that the next word that begins with dash is the start of the next
    option. The **autoformat** option may be followed by a colon
    character and formatting qualifiers to deviate the output formatting
    from the default:

    **j** print the job ID as the first field,

    **l** label each field,

    **h** print column headings before the first line of output,

    **V** use %V rather than %v for formatting (string values are
    quoted),

    **r** print "raw", or unevaluated values,

    **,** add a comma character after each field,

    **t** add a tab character before each field instead of the default
    space character,

    **n** add a newline character after each field,

    **g** add a newline character between ClassAds, and suppress spaces
    before each field.

    Use **-af:h** to get tabular values with headings.

    Use **-af:lrng** to get -long equivalent format.

    The newline and comma characters may not be used together. The
    **l** and **h** characters may not be used together.

 **-print-format** *file*
    Read output formatting information from the given custom print format file.
    see :doc:`/classads/print-formats` for more information about custom print format files.

 **-analyze[:<qual>]**
    (analyze option) Perform a matchmaking analysis on why the requested
    jobs are not running. First a simple analysis determines if the job
    is not running due to not being in a runnable state. If the job is
    in a runnable state, then this option is equivalent to
    **-better-analyze**. **<qual>** is a comma separated list containing
    one or more of

    **priority** to consider user priority during the analysis

    **summary** to show a one line summary for each job or machine

    | **reverse** to analyze machines, rather than jobs

 **-better-analyze[:<qual>]**
    (analyze option) Perform a more detailed matchmaking analysis to
    determine how many resources are available to run the requested
    jobs. This option is never meaningful for Scheduler universe jobs
    and only meaningful for grid universe jobs doing matchmaking. When
    this option is used in conjunction with the **-unmatchable** option,
    The output will be a list of job ids that don't match any of the
    available slots. **<qual>** is a comma separated list containing one
    or more of

    **priority** to consider user priority during the analysis

    **summary** to show a one line summary for each job or machine

    | **reverse** to analyze machines, rather than jobs

 **-machine** *name*
    (analyze option) When doing matchmaking analysis, analyze only
    machine ClassAds that have slot or machine names that match the
    given name.
 **-mconstraint** *expression*
    (analyze option) When doing matchmaking analysis, match only machine
    ClassAds which match the ClassAd expression constraint.
 **-slotads** *file*
    (analyze option) When doing matchmaking analysis, use the machine
    ClassAds from the file instead of the ones from the
    *condor_collector* daemon. This is most useful for debugging
    purposes. The ClassAds appear as if *condor_status* **-long** is
    used.
 **-userprios** *file*
    (analyze option) When doing matchmaking analysis with priority, read
    user priorities from the file rather than the ones from the
    *condor_negotiator* daemon. This is most useful for debugging
    purposes or to speed up analysis in situations where the
    *condor_negotiator* daemon is slow to respond to *condor_userprio*
    requests. The file should be in the format produced by
    *condor_userprio* **-long**.
 **-nouserprios**
    (analyze option) Do not consider user priority during the analysis.
 **-reverse-analyze**
    (analyze option) Analyze machine requirements against jobs.
 **-verbose**
    (analyze option) When doing analysis, show progress and include the
    names of specific machines in the output.

General Remarks
---------------

The default output from *condor_q* is formatted to be human readable,
not script readable. In an effort to make the output fit within 80
characters, values in some fields might be truncated. Furthermore, the
HTCondor Project can (and does) change the formatting of this default
output as we see fit. Therefore, any script that is attempting to parse
data from *condor_q* is strongly encouraged to use the **-format**
option (described above, examples given below).

Although **-analyze** provides a very good first approximation, the
analyzer cannot diagnose all possible situations, because the analysis
is based on instantaneous and local information. Therefore, there are
some situations such as when several submitters are contending for
resources, or if the pool is rapidly changing state which cannot be
accurately diagnosed.

It is possible to hold jobs that are in the X state. To avoid this it
is best to construct a **-constraint** *expression* that option
contains ``JobStatus != 3`` if the user wishes to avoid this condition.

Examples
--------

The **-format** option provides a way to specify both the job attributes
and formatting of those attributes. There must be only one conversion
specification per **-format** option. As an example, to list only Jane
Doe's jobs in the queue, choosing to print and format only the owner of
the job, the command line arguments for the job, and the process ID of
the job:

.. code-block:: console

    $ condor_q -submitter jdoe -format "%s" Owner -format " %s " Args -format " ProcId = %d\n" ProcId
    jdoe 16386 2800 ProcId = 0
    jdoe 16386 3000 ProcId = 1
    jdoe 16386 3200 ProcId = 2
    jdoe 16386 3400 ProcId = 3
    jdoe 16386 3600 ProcId = 4
    jdoe 16386 4200 ProcId = 7

To display only the JobID's of Jane Doe's jobs you can use the
following.

.. code-block:: console

    $ condor_q -submitter jdoe -format "%d." ClusterId -format "%d\n" ProcId
    27.0
    27.1
    27.2
    27.3
    27.4
    27.7

An example that shows the analysis in summary format:

.. code-block:: console

    $ condor_q -analyze:summary

    -- Submitter: submit-1.chtc.wisc.edu : <192.168.100.43:9618?sock=11794_95bb_3> :
     submit-1.chtc.wisc.edu
    Analyzing matches for 5979 slots
                Autocluster  Matches    Machine     Running  Serving
     JobId     Members/Idle  Reqmnts  Rejects Job  Users Job Other User Avail Owner
    ---------- ------------ -------- ------------ ---------- ---------- ----- -----
    25764522.0  7/0             5910        820   7/10       5046        34   smith
    25764682.0  9/0             2172        603   9/9        1531        29   smith
    25765082.0  18/0            2172        603   18/9       1531        29   smith
    25765900.0  1/0             2172        603   1/9        1531        29   smith

An example that shows summary information by machine:

.. code-block:: console

    $ condor_q -ana:sum,rev

    -- Submitter: s-1.chtc.wisc.edu : <192.168.100.43:9618?sock=11794_95bb_3> : s-1.chtc.wisc.edu
    Analyzing matches for 2885 jobs
                                    Slot  Slot's Req    Job's Req     Both
    Name                            Type  Matches Job  Matches Slot    Match %
    ------------------------        ---- ------------  ------------ ----------
    slot1@INFO.wisc.edu             Stat         2729  0                  0.00
    slot2@INFO.wisc.edu             Stat         2729  0                  0.00
    slot1@aci-001.chtc.wisc.edu     Part            0  2793               0.00
    slot1_1@a-001.chtc.wisc.edu     Dyn          2644  2792              91.37
    slot1_2@a-001.chtc.wisc.edu     Dyn          2623  2601              85.10
    slot1_3@a-001.chtc.wisc.edu     Dyn          2644  2632              85.82
    slot1_4@a-001.chtc.wisc.edu     Dyn          2644  2792              91.37
    slot1@a-002.chtc.wisc.edu       Part            0  2633               0.00
    slot1_10@a-002.chtc.wisc.edu    Den          2623  2601              85.10

An example with two independent DAGs in the queue:

.. code-block:: console

    $ condor_q

    -- Schedd: wenger@manta.cs.wisc.edu : <128.105.14.228:35169?...
    OWNER  BATCH_NAME    SUBMITTED   DONE   RUN    IDLE  TOTAL JOB_IDS
    wenger DAG: 3696    2/12 11:55      _     10      _     10 3698.0 ... 3707.0
    wenger DAG: 3697    2/12 11:55      1      1      1     10 3709.0 ... 3710.0

    14 jobs; 0 completed, 0 removed, 1 idle, 13 running, 0 held, 0 suspended

Note that the "13 running" in the last line is two more than the total
of the RUN column, because the two *condor_dagman* jobs themselves are
counted in the last line but not the RUN column.

Also note that the "completed" value in the last line does not
correspond to the total of the DONE column, because the "completed"
value in the last line only counts jobs that are completed but still in
the queue, whereas the DONE column counts jobs that are no longer in the
queue.

Here's an example with a held job, illustrating the addition of the HOLD
column to the output:

.. code-block:: console

    $ condor_q

    -- Schedd: wenger@manta.cs.wisc.edu : <128.105.14.228:9619?...
    OWNER  BATCH_NAME        SUBMITTED   DONE   RUN    IDLE   HOLD  TOTAL JOB_IDS
    wenger CMD: /bin/slee   9/13 16:25      _      3      _      1      4 599.0 ...

    4 jobs; 0 completed, 0 removed, 0 idle, 3 running, 1 held, 0 suspended

Here are some examples with a nested-DAG workflow in the queue, which is
one of the most complicated cases. The workflow consists of a top-level
DAG with nodes NodeA and NodeB, each with two two-proc clusters; and a
sub-DAG SubZ with nodes NodeSA and NodeSB, each with two two-proc
clusters.

First of all, non-batch mode with all of the node jobs in the queue:

.. code-block:: console

    $ condor_q -nobatch

    -- Schedd: wenger@manta.cs.wisc.edu : <128.105.14.228:9619?...
     ID      OWNER            SUBMITTED     RUN_TIME ST PRI SIZE CMD
     591.0   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:00:13 R  0    2.4 condor_dagman -p 0
     592.0   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:00:07 R  0    0.0 sleep 60
     592.1   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:00:07 R  0    0.0 sleep 300
     593.0   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:00:07 R  0    0.0 sleep 60
     593.1   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:00:07 R  0    0.0 sleep 300
     594.0   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:00:07 R  0    2.4 condor_dagman -p 0
     595.0   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:00:01 R  0    0.0 sleep 60
     595.1   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:00:01 R  0    0.0 sleep 300
     596.0   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:00:01 R  0    0.0 sleep 60
     596.1   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:00:01 R  0    0.0 sleep 300

    10 jobs; 0 completed, 0 removed, 0 idle, 10 running, 0 held, 0 suspended

Now non-batch mode with the **-dag** option (unfortunately, *condor_q*
doesn't do a good job of grouping procs in the same cluster together):

.. code-block:: console

    $ condor_q -nobatch -dag

    -- Schedd: wenger@manta.cs.wisc.edu : <128.105.14.228:9619?...
     ID      OWNER/NODENAME      SUBMITTED     RUN_TIME ST PRI SIZE CMD
     591.0   wenger             9/13 16:05   0+00:00:27 R  0    2.4 condor_dagman -
     592.0    |-NodeA           9/13 16:05   0+00:00:21 R  0    0.0 sleep 60
     593.0    |-NodeB           9/13 16:05   0+00:00:21 R  0    0.0 sleep 60
     594.0    |-SubZ            9/13 16:05   0+00:00:21 R  0    2.4 condor_dagman -
     595.0     |-NodeSA         9/13 16:05   0+00:00:15 R  0    0.0 sleep 60
     596.0     |-NodeSB         9/13 16:05   0+00:00:15 R  0    0.0 sleep 60
     592.1    |-NodeA           9/13 16:05   0+00:00:21 R  0    0.0 sleep 300
     593.1    |-NodeB           9/13 16:05   0+00:00:21 R  0    0.0 sleep 300
     595.1     |-NodeSA         9/13 16:05   0+00:00:15 R  0    0.0 sleep 300
     596.1     |-NodeSB         9/13 16:05   0+00:00:15 R  0    0.0 sleep 300

    10 jobs; 0 completed, 0 removed, 0 idle, 10 running, 0 held, 0 suspended

Now, finally, the non-batch (default) mode:

.. code-block:: console

    $ condor_q

    -- Schedd: wenger@manta.cs.wisc.edu : <128.105.14.228:9619?...
    OWNER  BATCH_NAME     SUBMITTED   DONE   RUN    IDLE  TOTAL JOB_IDS
    wenger ex1.dag+591   9/13 16:05      _      8      _      5 592.0 ... 596.1

    10 jobs; 0 completed, 0 removed, 0 idle, 10 running, 0 held, 0 suspended

There are several things about this output that may be slightly
confusing:

-  The TOTAL column is less than the RUN column. This is because, for
   DAG node jobs, their contribution to the TOTAL column is the number
   of clusters, not the number of procs (but their contribution to the
   RUN column is the number of procs). So the four DAG nodes (8 procs)
   contribute 4, and the sub-DAG contributes 1, to the TOTAL column.
   (But, somewhat confusingly, the sub-DAG job is not counted in the RUN
   column.)
-  The sum of the RUN and IDLE columns (8) is less than the 10 jobs
   listed in the totals line at the bottom. This is because the
   top-level DAG and sub-DAG jobs are not counted in the RUN column, but
   they are counted in the totals line.

Now here is non-batch mode after proc 0 of each node job has finished:

.. code-block:: console

    $ condor_q -nobatch

    -- Schedd: wenger@manta.cs.wisc.edu : <128.105.14.228:9619?...
     ID      OWNER            SUBMITTED     RUN_TIME ST PRI SIZE CMD
     591.0   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:01:19 R  0    2.4 condor_dagman -p 0
     592.1   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:01:13 R  0    0.0 sleep 300
     593.1   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:01:13 R  0    0.0 sleep 300
     594.0   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:01:13 R  0    2.4 condor_dagman -p 0
     595.1   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:01:07 R  0    0.0 sleep 300
     596.1   wenger          9/13 16:05   0+00:01:07 R  0    0.0 sleep 300

    6 jobs; 0 completed, 0 removed, 0 idle, 6 running, 0 held, 0 suspended

The same state also with the **-dag** option:

.. code-block:: console

    $ condor_q -nobatch -dag

    -- Schedd: wenger@manta.cs.wisc.edu : <128.105.14.228:9619?...
     ID      OWNER/NODENAME      SUBMITTED     RUN_TIME ST PRI SIZE CMD
     591.0   wenger             9/13 16:05   0+00:01:30 R  0    2.4 condor_dagman -
     592.1    |-NodeA           9/13 16:05   0+00:01:24 R  0    0.0 sleep 300
     593.1    |-NodeB           9/13 16:05   0+00:01:24 R  0    0.0 sleep 300
     594.0    |-SubZ            9/13 16:05   0+00:01:24 R  0    2.4 condor_dagman -
     595.1     |-NodeSA         9/13 16:05   0+00:01:18 R  0    0.0 sleep 300
     596.1     |-NodeSB         9/13 16:05   0+00:01:18 R  0    0.0 sleep 300

    6 jobs; 0 completed, 0 removed, 0 idle, 6 running, 0 held, 0 suspended

And, finally, that state in batch (default) mode:

.. code-block:: console

    $ condor_q

    -- Schedd: wenger@manta.cs.wisc.edu : <128.105.14.228:9619?...
    OWNER  BATCH_NAME     SUBMITTED   DONE   RUN    IDLE  TOTAL JOB_IDS
    wenger ex1.dag+591   9/13 16:05      _      4      _      5 592.1 ... 596.1

    6 jobs; 0 completed, 0 removed, 0 idle, 6 running, 0 held, 0 suspended

Exit Status
-----------

*condor_q* will exit with a status value of 0 (zero) upon success, and
it will exit with the value 1 (one) upon failure.

