docs/man-pages/condor_dagman.rst, before:

*condor_dagman*
===============

meta scheduler of the jobs submitted as the nodes of a DAG or DAGs
:index:`condor_dagman<single: condor_dagman; HTCondor commands>`\ :index:`condor_dagman command`

Synopsis
--------

**condor_dagman** *-f* *-t* *-l .* **-help**

**condor_dagman** **-version**

**condor_dagman** *-f* *-l .* **-csdversion** *version_string*
[**-debug** *level*] [**-dryrun**] [**-maxidle** *numberOfProcs*]
[**-maxjobs** *numberOfJobs*] [**-maxpre** *NumberOfPreScripts*]
[**-maxpost** *NumberOfPostScripts*] [**-maxhold** *NumberOfHoldScripts*]
[**-usedagdir** ] **-lockfile** *filename* [**-waitfordebug** ]
[**-autorescue** *0|1*] [**-dorescuefrom** *number*]
[**-load_save** *filename*] [**-allowversionmismatch** ]
[**-DumpRescue** ] [**-verbose** ] [**-force** ]
[**-notification** *value*] [**-suppress_notification** ]
[**-dont_suppress_notification** ] [**-dagman** *DagmanExecutable*]
[**-outfile_dir** *directory*] [**-update_submit** ]
[**-import_env** ] [**-include_env** *Variables*]
[**-insert_env** *Key=Value*] [**-priority** *number*]
[**-DontAlwaysRunPost** ] [**-AlwaysRunPost** ]
[**-DirectSubmit**] [**-ExternalSubmit**]
[**-DoRecovery** ] [**-dot**] **-dag** *dag_file*
[**-dag** *dag_file_2* ... **-dag** *dag_file_n* ]

Description
-----------

*condor_dagman* is a meta scheduler for the HTCondor jobs within a DAG
(directed acyclic graph) (or multiple DAGs). In typical usage, a
submitter of jobs that are organized into a DAG submits the DAG using
*condor_submit_dag*. *condor_submit_dag* does error checking on
aspects of the DAG and then submits *condor_dagman* as an HTCondor job.
*condor_dagman* uses log files to coordinate the further submission of
the jobs within the DAG.

All command line arguments to the *DaemonCore* library functions work
for *condor_dagman*. When invoked from the command line,
*condor_dagman* requires the arguments *-f -l .* to appear first on the
command line, to be processed by *DaemonCore*. The **csdversion** must
also be specified; at start up, *condor_dagman* checks for a version
mismatch with the *condor_submit_dag* version in this argument. The
*-t* argument must also be present for the **-help** option, such that
output is sent to the terminal.

Arguments to *condor_dagman* are either automatically set by
*condor_submit_dag* or they are specified as command-line arguments to
*condor_submit_dag* and passed on to *condor_dagman*. The method by
which the arguments are set is given in their description below.

*condor_dagman* can run multiple, independent DAGs. This is done by
specifying multiple **-dag** *a* rguments. Pass multiple DAG input
files as command-line arguments to *condor_submit_dag*.

Debugging output may be obtained by using the **-debug** *level*
option. Level values and what they produce is described as

-  level = 0; never produce output, except for usage info
-  level = 1; very quiet, output severe errors
-  level = 2; normal output, errors and warnings
-  level = 3; output errors, as well as all warnings
-  level = 4; internal debugging output
-  level = 5; internal debugging output; outer loop debugging
-  level = 6; internal debugging output; inner loop debugging; output
   DAG input file lines as they are parsed
-  level = 7; internal debugging output; rarely used; output DAG input
   file lines as they are parsed

Options
-------

 **-help**
    Display usage information and exit.
 **-version**
    Display version information and exit.
 **-csdversion** *VersionString*
    Sets the version of *condor_submit_dag* command used to submit
    the DAGMan workflow. Used to help identify version mismatching.
 **-debug** *level*
    An integer level of debugging output. *level* is an integer, with
    values of 0-7 inclusive, where 7 is the most verbose output. This
    command-line option to *condor_submit_dag* is passed to
    *condor_dagman* or defaults to the value 3.
 **-dryrun**
    Inform DAGMan to do a dry run. Where the DAG is ran but node jobs
    are not actually submitted.
 **-maxidle** *NumberOfProcs*
    Sets the maximum number of idle procs allowed before
    *condor_dagman* stops submitting more node jobs. If this option is
    omitted then the number of idle procs is limited by the configuration
    variable :macro:`DAGMAN_MAX_JOBS_IDLE` which defaults to 1000.
    To disable this limit, set *NumberOfProcs* to 0. The *NumberOfProcs*
    can be exceeded if a nodes job has a queue command with more than
    one proc to queue. i.e. ``queue 500`` will submit all procs even
    if *NumberOfProcs* is ``250``. In this case DAGMan will wait for
    for the number of idle procs to fall below 250 before submitting
    more jobs to the **condor_schedd**.
 **-maxjobs** *NumberOfClusters*
    Sets the maximum number of clusters within the DAG that will be
    submitted to HTCondor at one time. Each cluster is associated with
    one node job no matter how many individual procs are in the cluster.
    *NumberOfClusters* is a non-negative integer. If this option is
    omitted then the number of clusters is limited by the configuration
    variable :macro:`DAGMAN_MAX_JOBS_SUBMITTED` which defaults to 0 (unlimited).
 **-maxpre** *NumberOfPreScripts*
    Sets the maximum number of PRE scripts within the DAG that may be
    running at one time. *NumberOfPreScripts* is a non-negative integer.
    If this option is omitted, the number of PRE scripts is limited by
    the configuration variable :macro:`DAGMAN_MAX_PRE_SCRIPTS`
    which defaults to 20.
 **-maxpost** *NumberOfPostScripts*
    Sets the maximum number of POST scripts within the DAG that may be
    running at one time. *NumberOfPostScripts* is a non-negative
    integer. If this option is omitted, the number of POST scripts is
    limited by the configuration variable :macro:`DAGMAN_MAX_POST_SCRIPTS`
    which defaults to 20.
 **-maxhold** *NumberOfHoldScripts*
    Sets the maximum number of HOLD scripts within the DAG that may be
    running at one time. *NumberOfHoldscripts* is a non-negative integer.
    If this option is omitted, the number of HOLD scripts is limited by
    the configuration variable :macro:`DAGMAN_MAX_HOLD_SCRIPTS`, which
    defaults to 0 (unlimited).
 **-usedagdir**
    This optional argument causes *condor_dagman* to run each specified
    DAG as if the directory containing that DAG file was the current
    working directory. This option is most useful when running multiple
    DAGs in a single *condor_dagman*.
 **-lockfile** *filename*
    Names the file created and used as a lock file. The lock file
    prevents execution of two of the same DAG, as defined by a DAG input
    file. A default lock file ending with the suffix ``.dag.lock`` is
    passed to *condor_dagman* by *condor_submit_dag*.
 **-waitfordebug**
    This optional argument causes *condor_dagman* to wait at startup
    until someone attaches to the process with a debugger and sets the
    wait_for_debug variable in main_init() to false.
 **-autorescue** *0|1*
    Whether to automatically run the newest rescue DAG for the given DAG
    file, if one exists (0 = ``false``, 1 = ``true``).
 **-dorescuefrom** *number*
    Forces *condor_dagman* to run the specified rescue DAG number for
    the given DAG. A value of 0 is the same as not specifying this
    option. Specifying a nonexistent rescue DAG is a fatal error.
 **-load_save** *filename*
    Specify a file with saved DAG progress to re-run the DAG from. If
    given a path DAGMan will attempt to read that file following that
    path. Otherwise, DAGMan will check for the file in the DAG's
    ``save_files`` sub-directory.
 **-allowversionmismatch**
    This optional argument causes *condor_dagman* to allow a version
    mismatch between *condor_dagman* itself and the ``.condor.sub``
    file produced by *condor_submit_dag* (or, in other words, between
    *condor_submit_dag* and *condor_dagman*). WARNING! This option
    should be used only if absolutely necessary. Allowing version
    mismatches can cause subtle problems when running DAGs.
 **-DumpRescue**
    This optional argument causes *condor_dagman* to immediately dump a
    Rescue DAG and then exit, as opposed to actually running the DAG.
    This feature is mainly intended for testing. The Rescue DAG file is
    produced whether or not there are parse errors reading the original
    DAG input file. The name of the file differs if there was a parse
    error.
 **-verbose**
    (This argument is included only to be passed to
    *condor_submit_dag* if lazy submit file generation is used for
    nested DAGs.) Cause *condor_submit_dag* to give verbose error
    messages.
 **-force**
    (This argument is included only to be passed to
    *condor_submit_dag* if lazy submit file generation is used for
    nested DAGs.) Require *condor_submit_dag* to overwrite the files
    that it produces, if the files already exist. Note that
    ``dagman.out`` will be appended to, not overwritten. If new-style
    rescue DAG mode is in effect, and any new-style rescue DAGs exist,
    the **-force** flag will cause them to be renamed, and the original
    DAG will be run. If old-style rescue DAG mode is in effect, any
    existing old-style rescue DAGs will be deleted, and the original DAG
    will be run. See the HTCondor manual section on Rescue DAGs for more
    information.
 **-notification** *value*
    This argument is only included to be passed to *condor_submit_dag*
    if lazy submit file generation is used for nested DAGs. Sets the
    e-mail notification for DAGMan itself. This information will be used
    within the HTCondor submit description file for DAGMan. This file is
    produced by *condor_submit_dag*. The **notification** option is
    described in the *condor_submit* manual page.
 **-suppress_notification**
    Causes jobs submitted by *condor_dagman* to not send email
    notification for events. The same effect can be achieved by setting
    the configuration variable :macro:`DAGMAN_SUPPRESS_NOTIFICATION` to
    ``True``. This command line option is independent of the **-notification**
    command line option, which controls notification for the *condor_dagman*
    job itself. This flag is generally superfluous, as
    :macro:`DAGMAN_SUPPRESS_NOTIFICATION` defaults to ``True``.
 **-dont_suppress_notification**
    Causes jobs submitted by *condor_dagman* to defer to content within
    the submit description file when deciding to send email notification
    for events. The same effect can be achieved by setting the
    configuration variable :macro:`DAGMAN_SUPPRESS_NOTIFICATION` to
    ``False``. This command line flag is independent of the **-notification**
    command line option, which controls notification for the *condor_dagman*
    job itself. If both **-dont_suppress_notification** and
    **-suppress_notification** are specified within the same command
    line, the last argument is used.
 **-dagman** *DagmanExecutable*
    (This argument is included only to be passed to
    *condor_submit_dag* if lazy submit file generation is used for
    nested DAGs.) Allows the specification of an alternate
    *condor_dagman* executable to be used instead of the one found in
    the user's path. This must be a fully qualified path.
 **-outfile_dir** *directory*
    (This argument is included only to be passed to
    *condor_submit_dag* if lazy submit file generation is used for
    nested DAGs.) Specifies the directory in which the ``.dagman.out``
    file will be written. The *directory* may be specified relative to
    the current working directory as *condor_submit_dag* is executed,
    or specified with an absolute path. Without this option, the
    ``.dagman.out`` file is placed in the same directory as the first
    DAG input file listed on the command line.
 **-update_submit**
    (This argument is included only to be passed to
    *condor_submit_dag* if lazy submit file generation is used for
    nested DAGs.) This optional argument causes an existing
    ``.condor.sub`` file to not be treated as an error; rather, the
    ``.condor.sub`` file will be overwritten, but the existing values of
    **-maxjobs**, **-maxidle**, **-maxpre**, and **-maxpost** will be
    preserved.
 **-import_env**
    (This argument is included only to be passed to
    *condor_submit_dag* if lazy submit file generation is used for
    nested DAGs.) This optional argument causes *condor_submit_dag* to
    import the current environment into the **environment** command of
    the ``.condor.sub`` file it generates.
 **-include_env** *Variables*
     This optional argument takes a comma separated list of enviroment
     variables to add to ``.condor.sub`` ``getenv`` environment filter
     which causes found matching environment variables to be added to
     the DAGMan manager jobs **environment**.
 **-insert_env** *Key=Value*
     This optional argument takes a delimited string of *Key=Value* pairs
     to explicitly set into the ``.condor.sub`` files :ad-attr:`Environment` macro.
     The base delimiter is a semicolon that can be overriden by setting
     the first character in the string to a valid delimiting character.
     If multiple **-insert_env** flags contain the same *Key* then the last
     occurances *Value* will be set in the DAGMan jobs **environment**.
 **-priority** *number*
    Sets the minimum job priority of node jobs submitted and running
    under this *condor_dagman* job.
 **-DontAlwaysRunPost**
    This option causes *condor_dagman* to not run the POST script of a
    node if the PRE script fails.
 **-AlwaysRunPost**
    This option causes *condor_dagman* to always run the POST script of
    a node, even if the PRE script fails.
 **-DoRecovery**
    Causes *condor_dagman* to start in recovery mode. This means that
    it reads the relevant job user log(s) and catches up to the given
    DAG's previous state before submitting any new jobs.
 **-DirectSubmit**
    Causes *condor_dagman* to directly submit jobs to the local *condor_schedd*
    queue.
 **-ExternalSubmit**
     Causes *condor_dagman* to externally run :tool:`condor_submit` when submitting
     jobs to the local *condor_schedd* queue.
 **-dot**
    Run *condor_dagman* up until the point when a **DOT** file is
    produced.
 **-dag** *filename*
    *filename* is the name of the DAG input file that is set as an
    argument to *condor_submit_dag*, and passed to *condor_dagman*.

Exit Status
-----------

*condor_dagman* will exit with a status value of 0 (zero) upon success,
and it will exit with the value 1 (one) upon failure.

Examples
--------

*condor_dagman* is normally not run directly, but submitted as an
HTCondor job by running condor_submit_dag. See the
:doc:`/man-pages/condor_submit_dag` manual page for examples.

Commit message:

HTCONDOR-2406: Change individual flags to single flag that takes an enumeration value

docs/man-pages/condor_dagman.rst, after:

*condor_dagman*
===============

meta scheduler of the jobs submitted as the nodes of a DAG or DAGs
:index:`condor_dagman<single: condor_dagman; HTCondor commands>`\ :index:`condor_dagman command`

Synopsis
--------

**condor_dagman** *-f* *-t* *-l .* **-help**

**condor_dagman** **-version**

**condor_dagman** *-f* *-l .* **-csdversion** *version_string*
[**-debug** *level*] [**-dryrun**] [**-maxidle** *numberOfProcs*]
[**-maxjobs** *numberOfJobs*] [**-maxpre** *NumberOfPreScripts*]
[**-maxpost** *NumberOfPostScripts*] [**-maxhold** *NumberOfHoldScripts*]
[**-usedagdir** ] **-lockfile** *filename* [**-waitfordebug** ]
[**-autorescue** *0|1*] [**-dorescuefrom** *number*]
[**-load_save** *filename*] [**-allowversionmismatch** ]
[**-DumpRescue** ] [**-verbose** ] [**-force** ]
[**-notification** *value*] [**-suppress_notification** ]
[**-dont_suppress_notification** ] [**-dagman** *DagmanExecutable*]
[**-outfile_dir** *directory*] [**-update_submit** ]
[**-import_env** ] [**-include_env** *Variables*]
[**-insert_env** *Key=Value*] [**-priority** *number*]
[**-DontAlwaysRunPost** ] [**-AlwaysRunPost** ] [**-SubmitMethod** *value*]
[**-DoRecovery** ] [**-dot**] **-dag** *dag_file*
[**-dag** *dag_file_2* ... **-dag** *dag_file_n* ]

Description
-----------

*condor_dagman* is a meta scheduler for the HTCondor jobs within a DAG
(directed acyclic graph) (or multiple DAGs). In typical usage, a
submitter of jobs that are organized into a DAG submits the DAG using
*condor_submit_dag*. *condor_submit_dag* does error checking on
aspects of the DAG and then submits *condor_dagman* as an HTCondor job.
*condor_dagman* uses log files to coordinate the further submission of
the jobs within the DAG.

All command line arguments to the *DaemonCore* library functions work
for *condor_dagman*. When invoked from the command line,
*condor_dagman* requires the arguments *-f -l .* to appear first on the
command line, to be processed by *DaemonCore*. The **csdversion** must
also be specified; at start up, *condor_dagman* checks for a version
mismatch with the *condor_submit_dag* version in this argument. The
*-t* argument must also be present for the **-help** option, such that
output is sent to the terminal.

Arguments to *condor_dagman* are either automatically set by
*condor_submit_dag* or they are specified as command-line arguments to
*condor_submit_dag* and passed on to *condor_dagman*. The method by
which the arguments are set is given in their description below.

*condor_dagman* can run multiple, independent DAGs. This is done by
specifying multiple **-dag** *a* rguments. Pass multiple DAG input
files as command-line arguments to *condor_submit_dag*.

Debugging output may be obtained by using the **-debug** *level*
option. Level values and what they produce is described as

-  level = 0; never produce output, except for usage info
-  level = 1; very quiet, output severe errors
-  level = 2; normal output, errors and warnings
-  level = 3; output errors, as well as all warnings
-  level = 4; internal debugging output
-  level = 5; internal debugging output; outer loop debugging
-  level = 6; internal debugging output; inner loop debugging; output
   DAG input file lines as they are parsed
-  level = 7; internal debugging output; rarely used; output DAG input
   file lines as they are parsed

Options
-------

 **-help**
    Display usage information and exit.
 **-version**
    Display version information and exit.
 **-csdversion** *VersionString*
    Sets the version of *condor_submit_dag* command used to submit
    the DAGMan workflow. Used to help identify version mismatching.
 **-debug** *level*
    An integer level of debugging output. *level* is an integer, with
    values of 0-7 inclusive, where 7 is the most verbose output. This
    command-line option to *condor_submit_dag* is passed to
    *condor_dagman* or defaults to the value 3.
 **-dryrun**
    Inform DAGMan to do a dry run. Where the DAG is ran but node jobs
    are not actually submitted.
 **-maxidle** *NumberOfProcs*
    Sets the maximum number of idle procs allowed before
    *condor_dagman* stops submitting more node jobs. If this option is
    omitted then the number of idle procs is limited by the configuration
    variable :macro:`DAGMAN_MAX_JOBS_IDLE` which defaults to 1000.
    To disable this limit, set *NumberOfProcs* to 0. The *NumberOfProcs*
    can be exceeded if a nodes job has a queue command with more than
    one proc to queue. i.e. ``queue 500`` will submit all procs even
    if *NumberOfProcs* is ``250``. In this case DAGMan will wait for
    for the number of idle procs to fall below 250 before submitting
    more jobs to the **condor_schedd**.
 **-maxjobs** *NumberOfClusters*
    Sets the maximum number of clusters within the DAG that will be
    submitted to HTCondor at one time. Each cluster is associated with
    one node job no matter how many individual procs are in the cluster.
    *NumberOfClusters* is a non-negative integer. If this option is
    omitted then the number of clusters is limited by the configuration
    variable :macro:`DAGMAN_MAX_JOBS_SUBMITTED` which defaults to 0 (unlimited).
 **-maxpre** *NumberOfPreScripts*
    Sets the maximum number of PRE scripts within the DAG that may be
    running at one time. *NumberOfPreScripts* is a non-negative integer.
    If this option is omitted, the number of PRE scripts is limited by
    the configuration variable :macro:`DAGMAN_MAX_PRE_SCRIPTS`
    which defaults to 20.
 **-maxpost** *NumberOfPostScripts*
    Sets the maximum number of POST scripts within the DAG that may be
    running at one time. *NumberOfPostScripts* is a non-negative
    integer. If this option is omitted, the number of POST scripts is
    limited by the configuration variable :macro:`DAGMAN_MAX_POST_SCRIPTS`
    which defaults to 20.
 **-maxhold** *NumberOfHoldScripts*
    Sets the maximum number of HOLD scripts within the DAG that may be
    running at one time. *NumberOfHoldscripts* is a non-negative integer.
    If this option is omitted, the number of HOLD scripts is limited by
    the configuration variable :macro:`DAGMAN_MAX_HOLD_SCRIPTS`, which
    defaults to 0 (unlimited).
 **-usedagdir**
    This optional argument causes *condor_dagman* to run each specified
    DAG as if the directory containing that DAG file was the current
    working directory. This option is most useful when running multiple
    DAGs in a single *condor_dagman*.
 **-lockfile** *filename*
    Names the file created and used as a lock file. The lock file
    prevents execution of two of the same DAG, as defined by a DAG input
    file. A default lock file ending with the suffix ``.dag.lock`` is
    passed to *condor_dagman* by *condor_submit_dag*.
 **-waitfordebug**
    This optional argument causes *condor_dagman* to wait at startup
    until someone attaches to the process with a debugger and sets the
    wait_for_debug variable in main_init() to false.
 **-autorescue** *0|1*
    Whether to automatically run the newest rescue DAG for the given DAG
    file, if one exists (0 = ``false``, 1 = ``true``).
 **-dorescuefrom** *number*
    Forces *condor_dagman* to run the specified rescue DAG number for
    the given DAG. A value of 0 is the same as not specifying this
    option. Specifying a nonexistent rescue DAG is a fatal error.
 **-load_save** *filename*
    Specify a file with saved DAG progress to re-run the DAG from. If
    given a path DAGMan will attempt to read that file following that
    path. Otherwise, DAGMan will check for the file in the DAG's
    ``save_files`` sub-directory.
 **-allowversionmismatch**
    This optional argument causes *condor_dagman* to allow a version
    mismatch between *condor_dagman* itself and the ``.condor.sub``
    file produced by *condor_submit_dag* (or, in other words, between
    *condor_submit_dag* and *condor_dagman*). WARNING! This option
    should be used only if absolutely necessary. Allowing version
    mismatches can cause subtle problems when running DAGs.
 **-DumpRescue**
    This optional argument causes *condor_dagman* to immediately dump a
    Rescue DAG and then exit, as opposed to actually running the DAG.
    This feature is mainly intended for testing. The Rescue DAG file is
    produced whether or not there are parse errors reading the original
    DAG input file. The name of the file differs if there was a parse
    error.
 **-verbose**
    (This argument is included only to be passed to
    *condor_submit_dag* if lazy submit file generation is used for
    nested DAGs.) Cause *condor_submit_dag* to give verbose error
    messages.
 **-force**
    (This argument is included only to be passed to
    *condor_submit_dag* if lazy submit file generation is used for
    nested DAGs.) Require *condor_submit_dag* to overwrite the files
    that it produces, if the files already exist. Note that
    ``dagman.out`` will be appended to, not overwritten. If new-style
    rescue DAG mode is in effect, and any new-style rescue DAGs exist,
    the **-force** flag will cause them to be renamed, and the original
    DAG will be run. If old-style rescue DAG mode is in effect, any
    existing old-style rescue DAGs will be deleted, and the original DAG
    will be run. See the HTCondor manual section on Rescue DAGs for more
    information.
 **-notification** *value*
    This argument is only included to be passed to *condor_submit_dag*
    if lazy submit file generation is used for nested DAGs. Sets the
    e-mail notification for DAGMan itself. This information will be used
    within the HTCondor submit description file for DAGMan. This file is
    produced by *condor_submit_dag*. The **notification** option is
    described in the *condor_submit* manual page.
 **-suppress_notification**
    Causes jobs submitted by *condor_dagman* to not send email
    notification for events. The same effect can be achieved by setting
    the configuration variable :macro:`DAGMAN_SUPPRESS_NOTIFICATION` to
    ``True``. This command line option is independent of the **-notification**
    command line option, which controls notification for the *condor_dagman*
    job itself. This flag is generally superfluous, as
    :macro:`DAGMAN_SUPPRESS_NOTIFICATION` defaults to ``True``.
 **-dont_suppress_notification**
    Causes jobs submitted by *condor_dagman* to defer to content within
    the submit description file when deciding to send email notification
    for events. The same effect can be achieved by setting the
    configuration variable :macro:`DAGMAN_SUPPRESS_NOTIFICATION` to
    ``False``. This command line flag is independent of the **-notification**
    command line option, which controls notification for the *condor_dagman*
    job itself. If both **-dont_suppress_notification** and
    **-suppress_notification** are specified within the same command
    line, the last argument is used.
 **-dagman** *DagmanExecutable*
    (This argument is included only to be passed to
    *condor_submit_dag* if lazy submit file generation is used for
    nested DAGs.) Allows the specification of an alternate
    *condor_dagman* executable to be used instead of the one found in
    the user's path. This must be a fully qualified path.
 **-outfile_dir** *directory*
    (This argument is included only to be passed to
    *condor_submit_dag* if lazy submit file generation is used for
    nested DAGs.) Specifies the directory in which the ``.dagman.out``
    file will be written. The *directory* may be specified relative to
    the current working directory as *condor_submit_dag* is executed,
    or specified with an absolute path. Without this option, the
    ``.dagman.out`` file is placed in the same directory as the first
    DAG input file listed on the command line.
 **-update_submit**
    (This argument is included only to be passed to
    *condor_submit_dag* if lazy submit file generation is used for
    nested DAGs.) This optional argument causes an existing
    ``.condor.sub`` file to not be treated as an error; rather, the
    ``.condor.sub`` file will be overwritten, but the existing values of
    **-maxjobs**, **-maxidle**, **-maxpre**, and **-maxpost** will be
    preserved.
 **-import_env**
    (This argument is included only to be passed to
    *condor_submit_dag* if lazy submit file generation is used for
    nested DAGs.) This optional argument causes *condor_submit_dag* to
    import the current environment into the **environment** command of
    the ``.condor.sub`` file it generates.
 **-include_env** *Variables*
     This optional argument takes a comma separated list of enviroment
     variables to add to ``.condor.sub`` ``getenv`` environment filter
     which causes found matching environment variables to be added to
     the DAGMan manager jobs **environment**.
 **-insert_env** *Key=Value*
     This optional argument takes a delimited string of *Key=Value* pairs
     to explicitly set into the ``.condor.sub`` files :ad-attr:`Environment` macro.
     The base delimiter is a semicolon that can be overriden by setting
     the first character in the string to a valid delimiting character.
     If multiple **-insert_env** flags contain the same *Key* then the last
     occurances *Value* will be set in the DAGMan jobs **environment**.
 **-priority** *number*
    Sets the minimum job priority of node jobs submitted and running
    under this *condor_dagman* job.
 **-DontAlwaysRunPost**
    This option causes *condor_dagman* to not run the POST script of a
    node if the PRE script fails.
 **-AlwaysRunPost**
    This option causes *condor_dagman* to always run the POST script of
    a node, even if the PRE script fails.
 **-DoRecovery**
    Causes *condor_dagman* to start in recovery mode. This means that
    it reads the relevant job user log(s) and catches up to the given
    DAG's previous state before submitting any new jobs.
 **-SubmitMethod** *value*
    This optional argument takes an enumerated value representing the
    method in which *condor_dagman* will submit managed jobs for execution.
    Enumeration values are as follows:

    -  **0** : Run :tool:`condor_submit`
    -  **1** : Directly submit job to local *condor_schedd* queue
 **-dot**
    Run *condor_dagman* up until the point when a **DOT** file is
    produced.
 **-dag** *filename*
    *filename* is the name of the DAG input file that is set as an
    argument to *condor_submit_dag*, and passed to *condor_dagman*.

Exit Status
-----------

*condor_dagman* will exit with a status value of 0 (zero) upon success,
and it will exit with the value 1 (one) upon failure.

Examples
--------

*condor_dagman* is normally not run directly, but submitted as an
HTCondor job by running condor_submit_dag. See the
:doc:`/man-pages/condor_submit_dag` manual page for examples.
